The DNSSEC protocol makes use of various cryptographic algorithms in order to provide authentication of DNS data and proof of nonexistence.  To ensure interoperability between DNS resolvers and DNS authoritative servers, it is necessary to specify a set of algorithm implementation requirements and usage guidelines to ensure that there is at least one algorithm that all implementations support.  This document defines the current algorithm implementation requirements and usage guidance for DNSSEC.  This document obsoletes RFC 6944.
This document defines the CDN-Loop request header field for HTTP. CDN-Loop addresses an operational need that occurs when an HTTP request is intentionally forwarded between Content Delivery Networks (CDNs), but is then accidentally or maliciously re-routed back into the original CDN causing a non-terminating loop.  The new header field can be used to identify the error and terminate the loop.
The DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) were developed to provide origin authentication and integrity protection for DNS data by using digital signatures.  These digital signatures can be verified by building a chain of trust starting from a trust anchor and proceeding down to a particular node in the DNS.  This document specifies a mechanism that will allow an end user and third parties to determine the trusted key state for the root key of the resolvers that handle that user's DNS queries.  Note that this method is only applicable for determining which keys are in the trust store for the root key.
This document defines a new DNS OPCODE for DNS Stateful Operations (DSO).  DSO messages communicate operations within persistent stateful sessions using Type Length Value (TLV) syntax.  Three TLVs are defined that manage session timeouts, termination, and encryption padding, and a framework is defined for extensions to enable new stateful operations.  This document updates RFC 1035 by adding a new DNS header OPCODE that has both different message semantics and a new result code.  This document updates RFC 7766 by redefining a session, providing new guidance on connection reuse, and providing a new mechanism for handling session idle timeouts.
The Domain Name System (DNS) specifies a query type (QTYPE) "ANY". The operator of an authoritative DNS server might choose not to respond to such queries for reasons of local policy, motivated by security, performance, or other reasons.
The DNS relies upon caching to scale; however, the cache lookup generally requires an exact match.  This document specifies the use of NSEC/NSEC3 resource records to allow DNSSEC-validating resolvers to generate negative answers within a range and positive answers from wildcards.  This increases performance, decreases latency, decreases resource utilization on both authoritative and recursive servers, and increases privacy.  Also, it may help increase resilience to certain DoS attacks in some circumstances.
The DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) were developed to provide origin authentication and integrity protection for DNS data by using digital signatures.  These digital signatures can be verified by building a chain of trust starting from a trust anchor and proceeding down to a particular node in the DNS.  This document specifies two different ways for validating resolvers to signal to a server which keys are referenced in their chain of trust.  The data from such signaling allow zone administrators to monitor the progress of rollovers in a DNSSEC-signed zone.
This document describes how to specify Edwards-curve Digital Security Algorithm (EdDSA) keys and signatures in DNS Security (DNSSEC).  It uses EdDSA with the choice of two curves: Ed25519 and Ed448.
RFC 7344 specifies how DNS trust can be maintained across key rollovers in-band between parent and child.  This document elevates RFC 7344 from Informational to Standards Track.  It also adds a method for initial trust setup and removal of a secure entry point.
The Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Metadata interface enables interconnected Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) to exchange content distribution metadata in order to enable content acquisition and delivery.  The CDNI Metadata associated with a piece of content provides a downstream CDN with sufficient information for the downstream CDN to service content requests on behalf of an upstream CDN.  This document describes both a base set of CDNI Metadata and the protocol for exchanging that metadata.
This document specifies a resource record (RR) for the Domain Name System (DNS) and how to use it with the Host Identity Protocol (HIP). This RR allows a HIP node to store in the DNS its Host Identity (HI), the public component of the node public-private key pair; its Host Identity Tag (HIT), a truncated hash of its public key (PK); and the domain names of its rendezvous servers (RVSs).  This document obsoletes RFC 5205.
DNS Cookies are a lightweight DNS transaction security mechanism that provides limited protection to DNS servers and clients against a variety of increasingly common denial-of-service and amplification/ forgery or cache poisoning attacks by off-path attackers.  DNS Cookies are tolerant of NAT, NAT-PT (Network Address Translation - Protocol Translation), and anycast and can be incrementally deployed. (Since DNS Cookies are only returned to the IP address from which they were originally received, they cannot be used to generally track Internet users.) 
This document specifies the EDNS(0) "Padding" option, which allows DNS clients and servers to pad request and response messages by a variable number of octets.
DNS messages between clients and servers may be received over either UDP or TCP.  UDP transport involves keeping less state on a busy server, but can cause truncation and retries over TCP.  Additionally, UDP can be exploited for reflection attacks.  Using TCP would reduce retransmits and amplification.  However, clients commonly use TCP only for retries and servers typically use idle timeouts on the order of seconds.
This document specifies the requirement for support of TCP as a transport protocol for DNS implementations and provides guidelines towards DNS-over-TCP performance on par with that of DNS-over-UDP. This document obsoletes RFC 5966 and therefore updates RFC 1035 and RFC 1123.
Internet mail determines the address of a receiving server through the DNS, first by looking for an MX record and then by looking for an A/AAAA record as a fallback.  Unfortunately, this means that the A/AAAA record is taken to be mail server address even when that address does not accept mail.  The No Service MX RR, informally called "null MX", formalizes the existing mechanism by which a domain announces that it accepts no mail, without having to provide a mail server; this permits significant operational efficiencies.
This document specifies how a child zone in the DNS can publish a record to indicate to a parental agent that the parental agent may copy and process certain records from the child zone.  The existence of the record and any change in its value can be monitored by a parental agent and acted on depending on local policy.
This document describes a method to allow DNS Operators to more easily update DNSSEC Key Signing Keys using the DNS as a communication channel.  The technique described is aimed at delegations in which it is currently hard to move information from the Child to Parent.
Experience has shown that people get confused when discussing the three numeric fields of the TLSA record.  This document specifies descriptive acronyms for the three numeric fields in TLSA records.  This document updates the format of the IANA registry created by RFC 6698.
The residential gateway is a device that has become an integral part of home networking equipment.  Discovering a Location Information Server (LIS) is a necessary part of acquiring location information for location-based services.  However, discovering a LIS when a residential gateway is present poses a configuration challenge, requiring a method that is able to work around the obstacle presented by the gateway.
The DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) were developed to provide origin authentication and integrity protection for DNS data by using digital signatures.  These digital signatures can be generated using different algorithms.  This document specifies a way for validating end-system resolvers to signal to a server which digital signature and hash algorithms they support.  The extensions allow the signaling of new algorithm uptake in client code to allow zone administrators to know when it is possible to complete an algorithm rollover in a DNSSEC-signed zone.
The Certification Authority Authorization (CAA) DNS Resource Record allows a DNS domain name holder to specify one or more Certification Authorities (CAs) authorized to issue certificates for that domain. CAA Resource Records allow a public Certification Authority to implement additional controls to reduce the risk of unintended certificate mis-issue.  This document defines the syntax of the CAA record and rules for processing CAA records by certificate issuers. [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document is a collection of technical clarifications to the DNS Security (DNSSEC) document set.  It is meant to serve as a resource to implementors as well as a collection of DNSSEC errata that existed at the time of writing.
This document specifies how DNS resource records are named and structured to facilitate service discovery.  Given a type of service that a client is looking for, and a domain in which the client is looking for that service, this mechanism allows clients to discover a list of named instances of that desired service, using standard DNS queries. This mechanism is referred to as DNS-based Service Discovery, or DNS-SD.
As networked devices become smaller, more portable, and more ubiquitous, the ability to operate with less configured infrastructure is increasingly important.  In particular, the ability to look up DNS resource record data types (including, but not limited to, host names) in the absence of a conventional managed DNS server is useful.
A multi-interfaced node is connected to multiple networks, some of which might be utilizing private DNS namespaces.  A node commonly receives recursive DNS server configuration information from all connected networks.  Some of the recursive DNS servers might have information about namespaces other servers do not have.  When a multi-interfaced node needs to utilize DNS, the node has to choose which of the recursive DNS servers to use.  This document describes DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 options that can be used to configure nodes with information required to perform informed recursive DNS server selection decisions.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
The DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) require the use of cryptographic algorithm suites for generating digital signatures over DNS data. The algorithms specified for use with DNSSEC are reflected in an IANA-maintained registry.  This document presents a set of changes for some entries of the registry.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
The DNAME record provides redirection for a subtree of the domain name tree in the DNS.  That is, all names that end with a particular suffix are redirected to another part of the DNS.  This document obsoletes the original specification in RFC 2672 as well as updates the document on representing IPv6 addresses in DNS (RFC 3363). [STANDARDS-TRACK]
The NFS version 4 (NFSv4) protocol provides a mechanism for a collection of NFS file servers to collaborate in providing an organization-wide file namespace.  The DNS SRV Resource Record (RR) allows a simple way for an organization to publish the root of its file system namespace, even to clients that might not be intimately associated with such an organization.  The DNS SRV RR can be used to join these organization-wide file namespaces together to allow construction of a global, uniform NFS file namespace.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document describes how to specify Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) keys and signatures in DNS Security (DNSSEC).  It lists curves of different sizes and uses the SHA-2 family of hashes for signatures.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
The Domain Name System (DNS) has long provided means, such as the CNAME (Canonical Name), whereby a DNS query can be redirected to a different name.  A DNS response header has an RCODE (Response Code) field, used for indicating errors, and response status bits.  This document clarifies, in the case of such redirected queries, how the RCODE and status bits correspond to the initial query cycle (where the CNAME or the like was detected) and subsequent or final query cycles.   [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document discusses the use of the Domain Name System (DNS) for storage of data associated with E.164 numbers, and for resolving those numbers into URIs that can be used (for example) in telephony call setup.  This document also describes how the DNS can be used to identify the services associated with an E.164 number.  This document obsoletes RFC 3761.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document specifies how DNSSEC cryptographic algorithm identifiers in the IANA registries are allocated.  It changes the requirement from "standard required" to "RFC Required".  It does not change the list of algorithms that are recommended or required for DNSSEC implementations.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
The standard means within the Domain Name System protocol for maintaining coherence among a zone's authoritative name servers consists of three mechanisms.  Authoritative Transfer (AXFR) is one of the mechanisms and is defined in RFC 1034 and RFC 1035.
This document describes how to produce digital signatures and hash functions using the GOST R 34.10-2001 and GOST R 34.11-94 algorithms for DNSKEY, RRSIG, and DS resource records, for use in the Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document specifies how to use DNS (Domain Name Service) SRV RRs (Resource Records) to locate services for the AFS distributed file system and how the priority and weight values of the SRV RR should be interpreted in the server ranking system used by AFS.  It updates RFC 1183 to deprecate the use of the AFSDB RR to locate AFS cell database servers and provides guidance for backward compatibility.  [STANDARDS TRACK]
This document describes how to produce RSA/SHA-256 and RSA/SHA-512 DNSKEY and RRSIG resource records for use in the Domain Name System Security Extensions (RFC 4033, RFC 4034, and RFC 4035).  [STANDARDS TRACK]
This document defines application service tags that allow service location without relying on rigid domain naming conventions, and DNS procedures for discovering servers that provide IEEE 802.21-defined Mobility Services.  Such Mobility Services are used to assist a Mobile Node (MN) supporting IEEE 802.21, in handover preparation (network discovery) and handover decision (network selection).  The services addressed by this document are the Media Independent Handover Services defined in IEEE 802.21.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
The current Internet climate poses serious threats to the Domain Name System.  In the interim period before the DNS protocol can be secured more fully, measures can already be taken to harden the DNS to make 'spoofing' a recursing nameserver many orders of magnitude harder.
The Domain Name System Security (DNSSEC) Extensions introduced the NSEC resource record (RR) for authenticated denial of existence. This document introduces an alternative resource record, NSEC3, which similarly provides authenticated denial of existence.  However, it also provides measures against zone enumeration and permits gradual expansion of delegation-centric zones.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
With the increased use of DNS anycast, load balancing, and other mechanisms allowing more than one DNS name server to share a single IP address, it is sometimes difficult to tell which of a pool of name servers has answered a particular query.  While existing ad-hoc mechanisms allow an operator to send follow-up queries when it is necessary to debug such a configuration, the only completely reliable way to obtain the identity of the name server that responded is to have the name server include this information in the response itself. This note defines a protocol extension to support this functionality.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document describes a methodology for deploying alternate, non-backwards-compatible, DNS Security (DNSSEC) methodologies in an experimental fashion without disrupting the deployment of standard DNSSEC.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document defines a new parameter "enumdi" for the "tel" Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) to support the handling of ENUM queries in Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) network elements.  A VoIP network element may receive a URI containing an E.164 number, where that URI contains an "enumdi" parameter.  The presence of the "enumdi" parameter indicates that an ENUM query has already been performed on the E.164 number by a previous VoIP network element.  Equally, if a VoIP network element sends such a URI, it asserts that an ENUM query has been carried out on this number.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides a mechanism for host configuration that includes dynamic assignment of IP addresses and fully qualified domain names.  To maintain accurate name-to-IP-address and IP-address-to-name mappings in the DNS, these dynamically assigned addresses and fully qualified domain names (FQDNs) require updates to the DNS.  This document identifies situations in which conflicts in the use of fully qualified domain names may arise among DHCP clients and servers, and it describes a strategy for the use of the DHCID DNS resource record (RR) in resolving those conflicts.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
It is possible for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) clients to attempt to update the same DNS Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) or to update a DNS FQDN that has been added to the DNS for another purpose as they obtain DHCP leases.  Whether the DHCP server or the clients themselves perform the DNS updates, conflicts can arise.  To resolve such conflicts, RFC 4703 proposes storing client identifiers in the DNS to unambiguously associate domain names with the DHCP clients to which they refer.  This memo defines a distinct Resource Record (RR) type for this purpose for use by DHCP clients and servers: the "DHCID" RR.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
Use of the Domain Name System TSIG resource record requires specification of a cryptographic message authentication code. Currently, identifiers have been specified only for HMAC MD5 (Hashed Message Authentication Code, Message Digest 5) and GSS (Generic Security Service) TSIG algorithms.  This document standardizes identifiers and implementation requirements for additional HMAC SHA (Secure Hash Algorithm) TSIG algorithms and standardizes how to specify and handle the truncation of HMAC values in TSIG.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document specifies how to use the SHA-256 digest type in DNS Delegation Signer (DS) Resource Records (RRs).  DS records, when stored in a parent zone, point to DNSKEYs in a child zone.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document defines Uniform Resource Identifiers for Domain Name System resources.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document describes how to construct DNSSEC NSEC resource records that cover a smaller range of names than called for by RFC 4034.  By generating and signing these records on demand, authoritative name servers can effectively stop the disclosure of zone contents otherwise made possible by walking the chain of NSEC records in a signed zone.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
Cryptographic public keys are frequently published, and their authenticity is demonstrated by certificates.  A CERT resource record (RR) is defined so that such certificates and related certificate revocation lists can be stored in the Domain Name System (DNS).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
Domain Name System (DNS) names are "case insensitive".  This document explains exactly what that means and provides a clear specification of the rules.  This clarification updates RFCs 1034, 1035, and 2181.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
This document describes the functional specification and definition of the ENUM Naming Authority Pointer (NAPTR) record for IFax service.  IFax is "facsimile using Internet mail".  For this use, the Domain Name System (DNS) returns the email address of the referenced IFax system.  This mechanism allows email-based fax communication to use telephone numbers instead of requiring the sender to already know the recipient email address.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 This document is part of a family of documents that describe the DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC).  The DNS Security Extensions are a collection of new resource records and protocol modifications that add data origin authentication and data integrity to the DNS.  This document describes the DNSSEC protocol modifications.  This document defines the concept of a signed zone, along with the requirements for serving and resolving by using DNSSEC.  These techniques allow a security-aware resolver to authenticate both DNS resource records and authoritative DNS error indications. 
 This document is part of a family of documents that describe the DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC).  The DNS Security Extensions are a collection of resource records and protocol modifications that provide source authentication for the DNS.  This document defines the public key (DNSKEY), delegation signer (DS), resource record digital signature (RRSIG), and authenticated denial of existence (NSEC) resource records.  The purpose and format of each resource record is described in detail, and an example of each resource record is given. 
 The Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) add data origin authentication and data integrity to the Domain Name System.  This document introduces these extensions and describes their capabilities and limitations.  This document also discusses the services that the DNS security extensions do and do not provide.  Last, this document describes the interrelationships between the documents that collectively describe DNSSEC.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 This document describes a new resource record for the Domain Name System (DNS).  This record may be used to store public keys for use in IP security (IPsec) systems.  The record also includes provisions for indicating what system should be contacted when an IPsec tunnel is established with the entity in question. 
 The Secret Key Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG) protocol provides transaction level authentication for DNS.  TSIG is extensible through the definition of new algorithms.  This document specifies an algorithm based on the Generic Security Service Application Program Interface (GSS-API) (RFC2743).  This document updates RFC 2845. 
 Extending the Domain Name System (DNS) with new Resource Record (RR) types currently requires changes to name server software.  This document specifies the changes necessary to allow future DNS implementations to handle new RR types transparently.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 The IQUERY method of performing inverse DNS lookups, specified in RFC 1035, has not been generally implemented and has usually been operationally disabled where it has been implemented.  Both reflect a general view in the community that the concept was unwise and that the widely-used alternate approach of using pointer (PTR) queries and reverse-mapping records is preferable.  Consequently, this document deprecates the IQUERY operation, declaring it entirely obsolete.  This document updates RFC 1035.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 This document describes a Dynamic Delegation Discovery System (DDDS) Database using the Domain Name System (DNS) as a distributed database of Rules.  The Keys are domain-names and the Rules are encoded using the Naming Authority Pointer (NAPTR) Resource Record (RR). Since this document obsoletes RFC 2915, it is the official specification for the NAPTR DNS Resource Record.  It is also part of a series that is completely specified in "Dynamic Delegation Discovery System (DDDS) Part One: The Comprehensive DDDS" (RFC 3401).  It is very important to note that it is impossible to read and understand any document in this series without reading the others.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
For the definition of 
 In order to deploy DNSSEC (Domain Name System Security Extensions) operationally, DNSSEC aware servers should only perform automatic inclusion of DNSSEC RRs when there is an explicit indication that the resolver can understand those RRs.  This document proposes the use of a bit in the EDNS0 header to provide that explicit indication and describes the necessary protocol changes to implement that notification. [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 This document describes how to produce RSA/SHA1 SIG resource records (RRs) in Section 3 and, so as to completely replace RFC 2537, describes how to produce RSA KEY RRs in Section 2.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 This document proposes a method for performing secure Domain Name System (DNS) dynamic updates.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 This document describes the minor but non-interoperable changes in Request and Transaction signature resource records ( SIG(0)s ) that implementation experience has deemed necessary.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 This document describes a Transaction Key (TKEY) RR that can be used in a number of different modes to establish shared secret keys between a DNS resolver and server.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 This protocol allows for transaction level authentication using shared secrets and one way hashing.  It can be used to authenticate dynamic updates as coming from an approved client, or to authenticate responses as coming from an approved recursive name server.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 This document describes a DNS RR which specifies the location of the server(s) for a specific protocol and domain.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
 A standard method for storing Diffie-Hellman keys in the Domain Name System is described which utilizes DNS KEY resource records. [STANDARDS-TRACK]  
 A standard method for storing US Government Digital Signature Algorithm keys and signatures in the Domain Name System is described which utilizes DNS KEY and SIG resource records.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]  
 RFC1034 provided a description of how to cache negative responses.  It however had a fundamental flaw in that it did not allow a name server to hand out those cached responses to other resolvers, thereby greatly reducing the effect of the caching.  This document addresses issues raise in the light of experience and replaces RFC1034 Section 4.3.4. [STANDARDS-TRACK]  
 This document considers some areas that have been identified as problems with the specification of the Domain Name System, and proposes remedies for the defects identified. [STANDARDS-TRACK]
Using this specification of the UPDATE opcode, it is possible to add or delete RRs or RRsets from a specified zone.  Prerequisites are specified separately from update operations, and can specify a dependency upon either the previous existence or nonexistence of an RRset, or the existence of a single RR.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]  
 This memo describes the NOTIFY opcode for DNS, by which a master server advises a set of slave servers that the master's data has been changed and that a query should be initiated to discover the new data. [STANDARDS-TRACK]  
 This document proposes extensions to the DNS protocols to provide an incremental zone transfer (IXFR) mechanism.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]  
 The DNS has long relied upon serial number arithmetic, a concept which has never really been defined, certainly not in an IETF document, though which has been widely understood.  This memo supplies the missing definition.  It is intended to update RFC1034 and RFC1035.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]
